Azure Certified for IoT Program
===
---

# Introduction
**About this document**

Thank you for your interest in certifying your IoT device(s) for Azure Certified for IoT program. This document provides an overview of how device manufacturers can onboard to the program, submit their device(s) to certification, and requirements of three classes of IoT device(s) that the program supports to certify: IoT devices, IoT Starter Kits and IoT Edge devices. 

## First step

Device manufacturers can register as a partner for onboarding on Device Catalog [here](https://catalog.azureiotsolutions.com/register). Registration email should be either an organizational account (linked to Active Directory) or a Microsoft account. If you are unsure of what this is, please visit [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/member-offers/msdn-benefits-details/work-accounts-faq/) for more information. You can create a Microsoft account [here](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwjHldWn46DPAhUCzWMKHc3dD8EQFggjMAE&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.microsoft.com%2Fen-us%2Faccount&usg=AFQjCNEwDuHv5lREt0aGzy5CPD4IR4fNSA&sig2=gfwoKMfm6-YY8bAGEnEHNA). 

Once the registration is done successfully partner can submit the device for certification via [Partner Dashboard](https://catalog.azureiotsolutions.com/devices). Once you submit your device(s), we are streamlining the process from device registration to automatic validation with the appropriate instructions that you need to follow.

## IoT Device Class

There are three primary classes of IoT devices that we are certifying against, and each has different set of requirements. 

### IoT Devices Certification

Microsoft is certifying against the bi-directional connectivity between the IoT devices and Azure IoT Hub. This is the most common IoT device class. 

**Process:** 

-   *Requirement :* Partner pick the OS and perform the test mentioned in AICS and submit the log files generated from AICS.Download the relevant SDK [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-device-ecosystem/tree/master/iotcertification).To know how to use the AICS click [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-device-ecosystem/blob/master/AICS/how-to-use-aics.md).
-   *Certifying Criteria :* Device is certify based on the log files generated by AICS test and the get started document shared by the partners. 
-   Details guidelines can be found [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-device-ecosystem/tree/master/iotcertification)

### IoT Starter Kit Certification 

IoT Starter Kit comprised of the certified IoT device and sensors/actuators/cables/breadboard etc. The IoT Starter Kit allows Solution builders to customize the hardware configurations based on existing certified IoT device for PoC or commercial projects. Microsoft is certifying against the bi-directional connectivity between the IoT Starter Kit and Azure IoT Hub. 

**Process:**

-   *Requirement :* The kit must include all items that are required for the kit to be functional:
-   Partner should have a device that is Azure Certified for IoT along with Sensors/Actuators/Cables/Breadboard connected to the device and laptop/keyboard.
-   *Certifying Criteria :* Kit is certify based on the screenshots, log files and the get started document shared by the partners. 
-   Details guidelines can be found [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-device-ecosystem/blob/master/kits/iotcertification/iot_certification_kit.md).

### IoT Edge Devices Certification 

IoT Edge device provides higher quality standards than the IoT devices and IoT Starter Kit. Connectivity to Azure IoT Hub is pre-requisite and additionally, Microsoft is certifying against IoT Edge runtime pre-installation and basic device management capabilities to simplify the development of IoT solutions on IoT Edge devices.

**Process:**

-   *Requirement :* Partner pick the OS and perform the test mentioned in AICS and submit the logs files generated from AICS.Download the Azure IoT Edge Runtime [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-device-ecosystem/blob/master/iotcertification/iotedge/iotedge_certification_linux/iotedge_certification_linux.md).To know how to use the AICS click [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-device-ecosystem/blob/master/AICS/how-to-use-aics-edge.md).
-   *Pre-Requisite :* IoT Edge Device should have the Edge Runtime installed when device is shipped to Microsoft 
-   *Certifying Criteria :* Device is certified based on the log files generated by AICS test, get started document shared by partner and results are validated on actual physical device. Partner need to send the Hardware and the software manuals and get started document for the device 
-   Details guidelines can be found [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-device-ecosystem/blob/master/iotcertification/iotedge/iotedge_getstarted.md)

**Note:**

1.  Partners needs to send the device to Microsoft to validate the product truth to ensure that the Edge runtime components (Edge security manager specifically) are pre-installed.
2.  Device management is no longer a requirement (we recently moved them to optional and updated the doc). There were a few cases where tests failed via AICS during deployment of canonical temp sensor edge module because of the implementation. On AICS, we are testing against the software implementation. On physical device, we are testing the product truth with the actual hardware.

If your OEMs have any questions, feel free to direct them to the email alias below:

**Azure Certified for IoT** <iotcert@microsoft.com>
